# JavaAPILoader
Java API Database Loader part 1 of 2 - Final Project Java 2545 Fall 2016


This is the Database Loading application that builds the java_api database.

Background: The database is generated using the JavaAPILoader application (part 1 of 2). The database contains records stored in seven tables. This data has been extracted from the downloaded HTML files from Oracle's website for Java SE Version 8 and can be found at this link for the online version: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/index.html?overview-summary.html and the downloadable zip file containing all the files (beware, it's huge): http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/documentation/jdk8-doc-downloads-2133158.html

JSoup Java HTML Parser is used to read and extract selected data items from the API HTML files. Package-summary.html and <classname>.html files are scanned. In the interest of reducing complexity and the size of the database, not all information has been extracted. Future enhancements will expand the amount of data extracted thus increasing the useability of the GUI application. JSoup can be found at: https://jsoup.org/

Note that the database only contains data from the Java and JavaX libraries.

An overview of the documentation structure can be found on the help link of the API at: http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/ This page provides a good overview of the documentation structure and forms the basis of the database design.

Also included in the Github root is the .sql file to generate the database and the MySQL Workbench .wmb file that can be used to recreate the database.

Please see also the Overview file written in Word. It describes the logic used to scan the directories.

Please see file new_java_api_eer.png for the Entity Relationship diagram generated by MySQL Workbench.

Please also see the api_loader_stats.txt file for statistics on table rows added and exceptions.

There are undiagnosed/unknown exceptions that occur when running against the JavaX library. There are also known errors in the database tables. Time limitations prevented me from tracking down and fixing these issues. The impact of the errors seems to be minimal; a handful of data items may have been skipped over, and in some cases addition SQL commands using JOINS may not return all of the data due to missing foreign keys from a handful of table rows.

Running this application first requires downloading the Oracle API zip file and unzipping the file. Beware, this creates a directory of over 380 MB. 

The loader has the base libraries hard-coded and must be manually changed to point to the Java and JavaX libraries as installed on your computer. This application is run twice. Once against the Java directory (and all the sub-directories) and the JavaX (and all its sub-directories). Each program execution takes approx. 18-20 minutes (yes, it has a lot of files to read and database tables to update).

